hello my name is Brian Barrett I'm a
principal software engineer in AWS
specifically ec2 and I'm going to be
talking about optimizing network
performance for Amazon ec2 instances
I'll actually be co-presenting my
co-presenter Nick Matthews will come up
he's a solution architects Cuse me a
solutions architect in AWS and he'll be
talking a little bit more about the
customer facing customer benefits of
using enhanced networking in ec2 so what
to expect from this session we're going
to talk a little bit about
high-performance networking applications
particularly enhanced networking how it
works some performance numbers what
we're going to do next most specifically
in the next is something called elastic
network adapter or ena which is a
feature we launched earlier this year
with the x1 instance type and will
become our new way of doing enhanced
networking as we go forward and lots
more instant types so networking on AWS
as most of you guys have probably
figured out we have a we have a network
and it has a and one of our under modern
network type is a virtual private cloud
or VPC it's a um excuse me it has some
features in it that you guys have all
probably figured out the bigger the
instant size the better the performance
our network itself provides full
bisection bandwidth in a placement group
select caveat for uniformly random
traffic but so it's a it's a very large
network with a lot of bandwidth um and
customers tend not to see
oversubscription effects that might see
on a smaller network a couple years ago
we launched a product called enhanced
networking enhanced networking provides
over 1 million packets per second ah
input it started at a 10 gig instance
type we've since increased that fairly
significantly we'll talk about that in a
minute one of the first things enhanced
networking did was lower
instance instance Layton sees and we did
this initially using something an intel
nic called the a259 9 which supports us
single root io virtualization and so we
were able to pass that intel nic
directly to the customer instance um
we've since changed with ena to use a
in-house device that will talk about so
how we did a ec2 networking before
enhanced networking was of course you
can see we have an instance it has to be
thur net devices eat zeroeth one both of
them are connected to our hypervisor
infrastructure that makes all the magic
happen via the Zen para virtualized
device and so if you send a packet out
of 80 it flows through the instance
networking stack through the Zen para
virtualized ring devices into the
virtualization layer where it goes
through some network processing that
kind of jaggedy line there and then
eventually leaves the the host and goes
on its merry way to the other side the
other draw um host words received and
kind of the reverse path happens and the
packet ends up in your other instance uh
with enhanced networking particularly in
this case the until eight 2599 you don't
have a Zen para virtualized device you
have a pci virtual function and so this
looks like just any other pci device you
can run lspci and it shows up and it has
a bus number and all of those things
you'd expect you can use these tool and
look at it just like you'd expect for
any network device you'd have in any
linux or windows box um and when you
send a packet out rather than going
through the virtualization layer your
driver in in your instance sends a
packet across this virtual virtual
function it gets sent out on the wire
and then we talk or we do all the
network processing to make our virtual
private cloud offering work somewhere
else
and that somewhere else if you want more
details on this somewhere else James
Hamilton gave a keynote last night
that's now available online talking in
detail about exactly how this works the
hardware that we use to make the magic
happen I highly recommend his his
keynote it's always entertaining and in
this case it has an awful lot to do
about how this magic works um so we
launched with the x1 this year i
enhanced networking adapter or ene our
sorry elastic network adapter or ene
it's a new pci device developed
especially for ec2 we found one of the
disadvantages with the until eight 2599
is it's a 10 gigabit nic and if we
wanted to provide more than 10 gigabit
we had to provide a different nick and
if we looked at the roadmaps if we
wanted to provide more than 20 gigabit
we had to do yet another nick and we
were just going to play this game of
every time we wanted to increase speed
we'd have to make all of you guys get a
new driver and change your
configurations and twiddle some other
bits and that didn't seem particularly
customer friendly so we stepped back and
said well why don't we build one Nick
that can operate over a variety of
speeds from the 10 gig we offer today to
the 20 gauge you see an X 12 40 gig to a
hundred gig to 400 gig um we're not
going to do 400 gig next year just not
to rain on anyone's parade but the the
device driver and the device itself were
designed to keep up until we get to that
point and probably beyond that point it
uses a lot of lessons learned from
modern PCI devices like nvme in terms of
which is on the storage side inserts in
terms of all of the control API is used
to talk to the device can live in
cacheable memory so that you get the
best performance out of the Intel
processors that are running your
instance um it also unlike one of the
common complaints about our enhanced
networking with the 825 99
was like a see 38 x large or see 48 x
large the Ichi ni that was placed got to
transmit queues and to receive queues
for most web applications this wasn't a
big deal you got all the bandwidth that
you needed all the performance you
needed but if you were doing custom
processing and nickel talk about one
particular case where this is very true
where you are doing lots of network
processing on every packet that minimum
queue size can start to make the OS run
fairly slow and it's hard to use all the
network that we're providing and so one
of the things we did with ena is greatly
increase the number of requests queues
per device so today at launch on on the
platforms that support it so the x1 the
p2 the m416 x-large today we can add our
four and f1 to that and eventually c5
once it's released um with those you get
8 q's per device whether you're on the
m416 XL or the c5 extra large when that
when that becomes available you'll have
eight queues and will actually be
increasing that overtime to keep scale
with the number of cores that we're
adding to the instance types and so
those customers who have had pains with
the number of cues that we provided with
the 825 99 we think we've solved that
particular problem and you'll have the
queues you need the other thing that's
important for customers who have had
trouble with the until eight 2599
because it's a hardware device that we
don't entirely we didn't design in-house
we didn't do all those things we do have
trouble seeing sometimes exactly what's
happening with the customers virtual
function and and when they have that for
most customers that's not a problem they
don't have problems everything just
works but occasionally things go wrong
and we've had visibility problems and
one of the things we get with DNA is we
can tell exactly what the state of the
nick is when a customer comes and says
hey I'm seeing this really odd
performance problem and
I'm having trouble understanding what's
happening and so with ena we're actually
going to be able to have some
introspection into the vice and be able
to say oh you know it looks like you're
letting the cue the TX Q fill up before
your before your ringing the doorbell so
that we transmit are you sure that you
have all your DP DK settings exactly
right or are you forgetting to call this
poll function because the RX cube keeps
filling and it looks like maybe adding
some cpu would help and that's things
we've had trouble with that we'll be
able to do better with ena um so in
addition to better performance we get
better debug ability now on the
performance front this graph shows kind
of the last four generations of enhanced
networking and then prior to enhance
networking the the really tall bars and
this is Layton sees and higher is worse
as you'd expect with latency um so the
the high bars RCC 28 x large which was
our last kind of hpc off-network
offering that didn't have enhanced
networking and you can see you know our
our average latency is our TP 50s were
about 200 Mike microseconds these are
microseconds and if you looked at the TP
99 it went fairly dramatically up and if
you looked at the p100 it actually just
totally that the scale was so bad that
everything else got lost in the noise
that it it was a fairly noisy platform
arm in terms of Layton sees for a time
it was amazing but with enhanced
networking if you look we took you know
and it's the c3 x-large we took fifty
percent over fifty percent of the
latency off in one giant whack and more
importantly if you look at the TP 99 you
don't see these dramatic increases and
if you look at the TP 100 Layton sees
you really don't see these dramatic
increases in Layton sees these outliers
that cause applications so much problem
i see 48 x large do the hardware
differences between c3 and c4 despite
both being 8259 the
actually did use some different hardware
to implement the VPC part of the whole
magic it had better average case latency
and then a little worse case TP 99 it
was a little bit more susceptible to
outliers with m416 x-large where we went
to ena however what you see is not only
did we take another chunk of average
latency off and best case Layton sees
off but we were also able to improve the
outlier performance and a lot of this
has to do with instead of having to go
through kind of a loopback cable and
some extra serialization delays and some
extra processing everything is now
integrated into one pci device and again
if you want to see how the the magic
happens on ena i really recommend like
watching James Hamilton's video but one
of the things we we did there with DNA
was we were able to collaborate with
Anna poorna labs who's a subsidiary of
Amazon who makes the pci device and we
were able to really get down to the
nitty gritty details of how that all the
interactions happened and control some
of the outlier problems that we were
having um so better latency is always
good on the bandwidth side a 10 gig is
10 gig enhanced networking really meant
you could always get 10 gig where is
with the zen pv devices you had to have
a be having a really good day on to
actually get 10 gig of networking now if
you look if you look at our specs page
you see that M m416 x-large we say is a
20 gig instance type and yet on this
graph the little blue line stops about
10 gigabit and so what's up with that
well this is single stream bandwidth and
one of the interesting things we're
doing as part of our rollout of greater
than 10 gigabit instance types is we're
providing 20 gig of aggregate bandwidth
but any given TCP stream is still
limited to 10 gigabit and so if you look
the green line is if we run multiple
streams in this case three but you
you get it at two as well three tcp
streams and you can see we're hitting 20
gigabit um there's a couple of reasons
for this one it allows us to have a
little bit better utilization of our
network in general which is great for
you guys it saves you guys money it
reduces your outlier performance
problems for for bandwidth so and for us
it makes it a little bit easier to
maintain the system and when we look at
most of our customers their use cases
where i have lots i need lots of
bandwidth but i also have lots of TCP
flows and so this really covers that use
case fairly well it it is a little where
it surprises people though is it you
know the first thing you do when you get
a new instance type is you download
iperf or whatever your bandwidth checker
is of choice and the default is a single
TCP stream and you see you know this
number and your kind of sad and you come
talk to us and we say well you know if
you added this dash I three or whatever
the option is for your test it'll look
like this and you run it and it does and
everyone's happy um this is something
we're going to continue doing where
you'll see us have 10 gig flow limiters
inside an instance and then we'll keep
increasing the aggregate bandwidth as we
go forward on today the other place
that's a bit that tends to catch people
with this bandwidth is this is all
inside a placement group and a placement
group is basically our way of saying are
letting you tell us you know at these
two instances or these this set of
instances are going to be driving an
awful lot of traffic to each other and
and put them together in a way that they
can drive lots of bandwidth to each
other and so the the 10 gigabit
generally has only been inside a
placement group with the are for
instance type that was launched today
that 10 or 20 gigabit is inside a region
and whether you're quite in the same AZ
in the same placement group as long as
you're in the same region you'll be able
to drive that 10 or 20 or whatever
number
for the instant sighs you're running and
this will be true on all the platforms
going forward is that instead of having
kind of this different aggregate
bandwidth inside placement group and
outside a placement group it'll be D
bandwidth number and then what will
change is the side the maximum size of a
single flow that you can run that you
can drive and so if you're inside a
placement group you'll be able to drive
a 10 gigabit flow and if you're crossing
a ZZZ you'll be able to drive a 5
gigabit flow and so again looking at
various Network contention points um and
that's kind of why that happens but
again looking at the average use case
for cross AZ traffic that it shouldn't
be very impactful for most of our
customers excuse me so um if we look how
do I use ene you know you've said it's
great how do you use it um so the
easiest way is just grab the latest
amazon linux am i and launch a x1a p 2
and r 4 or an m416 XL um and everything
just works there are linux and windows
drivers available for if you're using
another linux on me or if you're using
windows the URL there and if you search
on AWS docs AWS amazon com this URL is
is available there is our Amazon Linux
drivers if you look on the the
documentation website there's a link to
the windows drivers as well we are up
streaming this so Linux 4.9 which will
be shipping any day now it's in the RC
series will include ene support out of
the box we will continue up up streaming
changes as we go and there is DP DK
support d pd a version 1604 included ene
drivers we made some enhancements over
the last couple of months and so if you
are looking to use d pdk we really
recommend you use 16 dot11 when it comes
out you'll have a slightly better
experience we found some bugs that kind
of thing and so we recommend upgrading
and for those using freebsd which has
has been a pain point for enhanced
networking because ixgbe VF driver that
used with the intel card has never
really worked well with freebsd in our
environment will have a native freebsd
driver coming soon that that is actually
tuned for for the amazon are for the AWS
environment and so that's kind of what
the ene driver support looks like um
with that I'm going to turn it over to
Nick who's going to talk about some of
our customer stories and success stories
with enhanced networking so we talked a
lot about networking and some of the
details let's take a look what it
actually looks like to our customers and
our partners so the first use case here
that we're going to talk about is twilio
a lot of you are probably familiar with
them they run a service on ABS that
helps over a million users with their
real-time communication requirements the
one of the challenges here is that
whenever they route calls between
regions that all happens over the 80s
network and so anyone that's ever been
on a phone call with packet loss or high
latency or jitter you know it doesn't
sound fun so how do you solve that
problem and hence networking comes to
the savior here so when they moved to
the h vm instances that include enhanced
networking that allows them to one use
10 gigabit per second interfaces which
speeds up the communication it allows
higher packets per second for if you're
familiar with doing a lot of real-time
streaming you use a lot of small UDP
packets quite often and end result is
you know have your customers and less
support calls as well a customer
supercell you may know them from clash
of clans they run an online game that
the way it works is they've got a large
amount of TCP connections that are
that are fully meshed and as part of
this as well as they started
experiencing some challenges when they
were scaling this game out and so they
found out they really need to move into
BBC for a variety of reasons so they did
a migration from easy to classic to BBC
one of the benefits in v pc is now
they're able to use instance types that
have enhanced networking enabled so
uneasy to classic one of the challenges
they had was the amount of time it took
for sessions to establish basically
there's a proxy server that you know
there's hundreds of these and they have
thousands of connections and so it was
taking you know 30 minutes for these TCP
connections to stabilize and connect
which you know obviously was was painful
when they move to enhance networking
this took one minute as well you know
TCP and sessions especially on databases
monitoring sometimes TCP does odd things
you just hope its kind of self heels
that's a benefit but it can be a little
bit annoying so one of the things I saw
when I moved over to enhance networking
is that you know they're monitoring
solutions that we're doing lots of TCP
connections out to their infrastructure
that became a lot more stable they just
have a lot less weird things happening
as well as the databases whenever you
know connections would reset every now
and then they would try to figure out
that what was happening and apparently
the answer was again enhance networking
so that that made the database
connections become a lot more stable as
well their message queues that the
shrinking in size so you know very very
cool story the end result here is okay
we've been talking a lot about
networking what does this actually mean
to me as a customer my users especially
the users in your customers for them
this allowed them to start doing
maintenance and down times instead of
taking an hour it now takes 20 minutes
so there's users that are playing and
they don't even realize that there was a
you know an outage or a downtime so
great result there I will change you
know type of customer use case here so
Cisco is a partner of ours they have the
the cloud services router or CSR
so it's a you know the benefits
customers you know you get to use the
same feeling if you know iOS on-premise
or on abs and you know has does routing
these kind of things it's a particular
interest to us because we built a
solution with them called a transit VPC
the transit VPC is something our
solutions biller team built uses lambda
to automatically allow you to do
transitive routing basically from
on-premise to multiple VP sees the part
where this is kind of interesting is
because it becomes a bottleneck the way
that we get the routing to work is by
using VPN s so we use the virtual
private gateways and the you know the
spoke V pcs which all terminate on the
CSR and so then the CSRs then processing
all that traffic and determining the
ipsec truck tunnels so you know we did
some testing you know for the majority
of use cases depending upon you know a
packet size and all those kinds of
things you get anywhere from you know
about 124 gigabits per second through
the CSR so it was really important for
them to enable enhance networking so
what they saw so so Steph is the basis
of acronym they use for their forwarding
mechanism on the router they saw it over
a hundred percent increase on that as
well from ipsec performance that went up
again over one hundred percent we have
some different numbers so it was kind of
hard to quantify an exact number but you
know performance was doubling in all use
cases so very very cool stuff there so
let's take a look at some of the other
what do we need to do for enhance
networking first the instance types are
up here so we've got C 3 C 4 d2 I to m4
except for the 16 and then our three we
have ene support on the m416 XL as well
as the p2 and the x1 is this is the
there's two requirements you need in
order to use enhanced networking you
need the driver support and then you
also need to tag your army or build the
tag into your army you'll need version 2
dot 14 2 or later to support the Intel
8259 nine driver
so let's take a look at how to do the
army tagging so in this scenario this is
how you can find out whether or not your
and supports enhanced networking or not
so this is an example using Avis CLI
from here you can see that in the SR iov
NetSupport you get a null result there's
nothing there if you do the same thing
where it's supported that says you'll
get the result with simple for ena
support use a slightly different version
of the CLI using the reservations the
parameter and for here it is a true for
when you support ena in terms of how you
actually check if your army already has
this baked in or not these are the two
it is CLI commands you'll use to check
this so you can basically you check the
image a tribute of your of your army and
it will for both of these it will either
be SR Iovine s support for enhanced or
482 5599 intel driver and then for ena
as just ena support if you want to build
your own army that has enhanced
networking enabled this is the process
it's the same standard process that you
would use for building a normal on me
that you can that's sold documented on
you know docks at abs on amazon com so
basically you you start your instance up
you incorporate the colonel changes or
again a fusion 4.9 or later it's already
going to be built into the kernel and
from there depending upon whether using
instance back storages or EBS back
storages armies sorry you'll have two
different ways to do this with the
instance back stores you'll just need to
build a new army to do that with the EBS
backed images you're able to you can
stop the image run this command here the
modify instances tribute and then you
can start it back up and you'll have
support one thing to note here that's
important is that once you enable this
there's no going back so if you go in
your EBS you go and tag it it's going to
immediately start when you launch it
back up its gonna try to do that so if
you have other changes you want to do or
anything other testing you want to do we
recommend for you to do that first
before you enable this tag
so if you if you've done this and you
want to see if it's working out what you
can do is you can run this eath tool
command here dash I and then the the
network interface and in the case worry
it's not running you'll you receive the
the VIP driver you can do this is on
windows as well you have to go through
the GUI and take a look at the driver
details you should see the same results
and if it is enabled you get the IX g b
VF I don't think I'm you guys are
curious what that stands for it kind of
drive drove me nuts the Intel expert n
then gigabit ethernet virtual function
so now you guys can tell everyone you
learn something today it's Judith I
think it's though I've had no idea how
to present that if for ena it's very
similar you'll run the same eath tool
command and from there again you'll see
the ene driver there you'll see the
versions change a little bit you don't
need to worry about the bus info or
those types of details those will change
potentially and that's what I've got so
I'll leave you with one closing kind of
statement you know basically tiger
instances and everything goes faster
alright that's kind of the call to
action here so using hands networking
it's easy it works you know so thank you
guys for coming and I know it's getting
late here so we'll take questions